Friends here our concept teas Test to command.
C test is a command and it is used to judge or validate conditions.
First, let me get the syntax of test command that is simply
test the condition or instead of test,
you can take single or double square braces
are near compared to test or single square brace.
Double square braces on the enhanced version to evaluate your condition,
to judge your condition.
And this syntax works with bass, K-shell jettison.
Suppose if you want to validate your condition in p shell or shell or seashell,
then go with the test condition or with a single square brace.
Fine.
Now, here we are validating or condition
with the test to command or with a single or double square braces.
Then what is this condition or how to create that condition to validate with
your test to command S0 condition is like this.
Assume that you are having two numbers.
I want to compare those two numbers,
like whether they are equal or not.
Or first number is greater than the second number or
first number is less than the second number, there is a condition.
And here to create your condition,
to work with your test to command,
we have different types of operators.
They are like comparison operators and file test operators.
Let me go with one-by-one comparison operators.
Again, here also we have two sets of operators.
First cities for numbers,
and second set is four strings.
So these are the numbers comparison operators.
And these are the strings comparison operators.
Let me explain about this.
See here, I have given a syntax by including tests the command S0,
that square braces to square braces,
double square braces is there.
That means there is a test to command off the running this command with this operator.
Observe here, iPhone E two.
That means if these two numbers are equal,
then this entire command will do the hidden status as 00 means true.
In case if they are not equal,
this entire command will do exit status or
written status of your command as 11 means false.
If a test is false or your test is true.
Let me explain this on your terminal before going to work with your test to command.
Suppose I have an ls command and I want
to list the list of the directories and files which
are there in these directly on
offer that let me run echo dollar question mark, you're getting 0.
This is the exit status of your LS command or written status of your LS command.
You're getting 00 means your command was run successfully.
That's why you are able to see the output here.
Now let me run some invalid command after that,
let me run echo dollar question mark and see the result.
You are getting some nonzero value.
That means your command,
whatever the command you executed that was failed.
That's the same concept is applicable with your test to comment as well.
Let me test it for two numbers,
whether they're equal or not.
For equals to four.
That is the condition,
this condition we are creating,
we are making by using Haiku UQ operator.
So this will check whether they are equal or not.
That condition we are testing with the test can command.
If they're really equal,
this test command will success.
If they are not equal,
your test to command will fail.
But how we can validate that.
So often running test to command,
immediately, run echo dollar question mark and see the result.
You're getting. 00 means your test towards success.
What is your test for equals to four?
That was success.
Now let me check in this way.
For equals to 43.
No, no, see the result of Ecuador question mark nonzero one.
So that is giving nonzero means your test was failing.
Weight is fake because they are not equal.
But we're trying for equality.
That's it.
Now, instead of test,
you can take simply either single or double square braces.
Now see the result of echo dollar question mark non-zero because they are not equal.
You can also take two square braces,
and we'll take this one because this is the enhancer version.
That's it.
Now, if you are having a numbers directly, we are substituting here.
But suppose, assume that we have our numbers in variables.
Let say x equals six and wake goes to two.
Now I want to compare,
is x greater than y?
I mean, the X value is greater than y value.
Then you have to test in this way,
start with two square braces.
Then dollar hyphen g t greater than o, dollar y.
After running your test to command on our condition,
see the echo dollar value.
0 means yes, you are test was success.
What is your test? You are checking x greater than y. Yes, that's true.
That's why you are getting 0.
Now in reverse way, offer validating your test to
command for your condition based on this value,
we are saying that whether this test is success or not,
this test is success.
If you get this question, mark a value at 0,
and this test failed,
if you get this doll question mark of value as non-zero R1.
So 0 means true.
False means one, or one means false, that's it.
And if you observe here we have different types of operators.
And if you observe in the last one,
I have taken here x limit with symbol.
So what will happen whenever if you take exclamation symbol for your condition,
it will reverse the resonant.
Suppose, as of now,
if I compare x greater than y,
you are getting result status as 0.
But if I take x limitless symbol before your condition,
make sure that there should be some space before
your condition with the word exclamation symbol.
And here also you should have some space.
Curly braces, sorry, square braces and your excellent R3.
Then here also space here also space.
Now see there is a, you are getting non-zero value.
So excellently symbol will make your result or reverse.
That's fine.
Same way you can compare strings also lets say my name,
I'm digging empty string.
I want to evaluate that whether it is empty or not through Laozi,
then simply take hyphen side.
You are variable value.
Variable value is nothing but dollar.
Your variable.
If really you were string,
whatever it is, they're newer variable.
If it is having 0 length or if there are no characters for your string,
then this will do written straight us as G0.
0 means your string is empty.
G 0 length string.
Now let me take in this way,
shell scripting I'm taking as my string.
Now see the result I'm comparing.
I'm validating that taste is my string is having 0 length. No.
That's why you're going to get returns traders as non-0.
That's it.
Now these are comparison operators for your numbers and strings.
Now we help come file test operators to walk with your test,
to comment on your files that like these are the operators.
Suppose I wanted to validate whether the given file or path is directory or not,
then you can take hyphen D option here.
Let me evaluate that.
Suppose I have a here,
Bash shell scripting nodes as a directory.
But logical, I want to test it whether it's directly or not.
Then simply take hyphen D,
provide the name of your directory name, then test it.
So how can you test after running your test with condition c,
the value of the URL question mark.
If it is 0, then you can say that this is the directory.
Now let me do one thing instead of the territory I'm evaluating is the defiling.
No.
That's why you're going to get returned status as one.
That means there is not a file.
That's it.
So likewise, Oliver files or paths,
we have different types of operators.
Not only this, we have some more operators.
I will share.
You can download that from this video.
Okay.
Thank you.